# Meeting  6 Sep 10:30-12:00

## Dates

week 43: Mon 21 Oct - Fri 25 Oct:

- Onboarding: Mon 21 Oct at : Bj+ Ri
- Python: Tuesday 22nd Oct: Re + Bi + PO ?Ri
- Julia: Wednesday 23rd Oct BC, P
- R: Thursday 24th Oct: Ri?
- Matlab: Friday 25th Oct: Bi + Bj + Pe + Re

General meetings on Fridays(?) every week

1. Review of decisions/updates
    - overall:
        - evaluations keep improving
            - Ri: is there a plot/analysis somewhere?
            - Bj: Yes, below. They are not on the GitHub yet, Ri volunteers to put it there too
        - more time for exercises
        - run as before (Rackham/Keb) but add possibility for Lunarc
            - how to do practically?
            - use prereq as to be able to log in and start the different interpreters on their favourite cluster
                - yes Björn expands
                - sounds reasonable
            - Option 1: 3 parallel sessions of login 15 min right after intro
                - yes
                - no: Ri (no need for parallel, 15mins is too short), BC
                - together with tabs: BB, RP(?),PO
            -
            - Option 2: at 8:30: first 45 mins (or shorter: depend on teacher) is always login, learners can choose to be absent on 2nd, 3rd, 4th day. After that leaners are assumed to be able to login. 9.15 ordinary proagram
                - Yes: BB (but prefer option 3), BC, PO half (if we skip the on-boarding)
                - No: Ri (too early), RP, PO half (if we have on-boarding)
            - Option 3: at 9:00, first 45 mins (or shorter: depend on teacher) is always login, learners can choose to be absent on 2nd, 3rd, 4th day. After that leaners are assumed to be able to login.
                - Yes: Ri, RP (this or Op. 1, I don't know which is better), BB half
                - No: BC
            - Starting of ordinary program each day
                - 10.00 after break
            - End each day at 16.00
                - yes: BC, Ri, RP, BB, PO
                - no:
        - move some of the material to extra reading? check possibility -> goal less talk
            - Yes: Ri, BC, BB,
            - No:
            - I don't know: RP
    - prereq
        - email
            - most important info in top
            - update with Lunarc
            - BB goes through the text and try to shorten it
        - testable on prereq page
            - add login+load
    - [Move to next meeting] python
        - end 16.00 :+1:
            -  (other days as well?)
        - fix schedule
        - 30 min jupyter+interactive
        - R: suggest: simplify interactive session to single-node job: it is an intro
        - R: suggest: more time for sbatch and GPU
        - R: suggest: parallel programming simpler exercises
        - R: suggest: what is the goal of the course? If it is an introduction, does this include topics like parallel computing and GPU? Where to draw the line?
    - [Move to next meeting] R
        - parallel went too fast
        - more time with ML
        - more time for questions
    - [Move to next meeting] Julia
        - Intro sessions and batch took longer time
2. Course projects
    3. seems we have lunarc users
        - probably can get cosmos project
        - also for teachers
        - gpu can be reserved: Jonas writes "I think you will need to adjust your examples, but short examples should be able to be run [on] a single GPU server. We could use the GPUs on the A40 nodes; then we don't have to reserve dedicated GPU-nodes."
4. Other evaluation questions?
    - R: yes, I like 'rate your confidence in ... ' questions, e.g. at  https://github.com/UPPMAX/uppmax_intro_day_1/tree/main/evaluations/20240827
5. Review of responsibilities+content
- Discuss:
    - maximum teachers per day
        - suggestion 2 or 3 or infinite
            - not important/infinite: Ri, BC, BB, RP, PO
            - 2
            - 3
    - maximum days of teaching per teacher
        - suggestion 3 or even 2 (if possible)
            - 2
            - 3: BC
            - infinite/4 no opinion (whatever works/is needed): Ri, RP, BB, PO
- Topics /schedule
    - PY: Ri, RP, BB PO
    - Julia: BC PO
    - R: BB, Ri, PO
    - MATLAB: RP, BC, PO, BB
6. Detailed evaluations (if time) of
- put up on github
- Student evaluations:
    - [Python (summary)](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UMVpNM1dGUEhPVFpKUDVOUlBRWkgyUFlWMi4u), [Full evaluation/excel](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/13ABmZYPvu2orCWrKi8FL3QOlKGr9a_We/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=100432443967881740194&rtpof=true&sd=true)
    - [Julia](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UNlY3NFUwODFMWDlDVFhUUkRMS01CSkQzSS4u), [Full evaluation/excel](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LhDTDr48cdk3vNoREoVi9zN1qTm4eZeb/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=100432443967881740194&rtpof=true&sd=true)
    - [R](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQ0NUU1pWQ0taNlE2V0JRUllDQlMwMkdXSi4u), [Full evaluation/excel](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1prkvX3CF4IRsUnAfzoO1BLrw0TzQbwYN/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=100432443967881740194&rtpof=true&sd=true)


5. Next meetings
    - language specific?
        - yes: Ri
        - no: always start with general things and see how it progresses, maybe schedule small meetings if need:
            - BC, PO, RP, BB
    - every friday 11.00-12.00
        - agenda
            1. general
            2. python
            3. R
            4. Matlab
            5. Julia
        - ad-hoc meetings
6. ToDos
    - BC:
        - matlab material
        - prereqs
    - BB:
    - PO:
    - RB: get evaluation data, suggest schedules for Py and R
    - RP:

