# Meeting Fri 18 Oct at 13

## Dates

week 43: Mon 21 Oct - Fri 25 Oct:

- Onboarding: Mon 21 Oct at : Bj+ Ri
- Python: Tuesday 22nd Oct: Re + Bi + PO ?Ri
- Julia: Wednesday 23rd Oct BC, P
- R: Thursday 24th Oct: Ri?
- Matlab: Friday 25th Oct: Bi + Bj + Pe + Re

General meetings on Fridays(?) every week

## Status

- General
    - registered
        - Around 56 learners. Will be shared later in the Slack today
    - projects
        - BC: Can I be proxy to the NAISS project? BB: BC will be made proxy to the course NAISS project
        - Project codes:
            - UPPMAX: uppmax2025-2-272
            - LUNARC lu2025-7-24
    - prereqs
        - updated
    - syllabus page
        - [x] B volunteers to clean up https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/index.html
    - schedules
        - parallelism 45 min
            - [x] all but python (it has 35 mins now)
            - VOTED: agree to find the time
        - python
            - rethink length of sessions and content? DISCUSS further down
    - automatic checkers
        - RB: can the link checker be turned on again?
            - Yes, we use Issues reports instead of emails
        - spelling:  Rather in phase
            - Yes, change to use Issues reports instead of emails
            - [ ] [RB will make the change](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/97)
        - syntax: Rather in phase (documentation action)
        - links: misbehaving of github pages
            - [ ] [RB checks the link checker](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/98)
- Different days
    - Python day
        - RB: what of the LUNARC part of the simultaneous session?
            - RP: can show Spyder and Jupyter, OpenOnDemand is already covered
        - BC: remove conda
            - Yes: BB, RB
    - Julia day: nothing to report
    - R day: nothing to report
    - Matlab day
        - BC works with add-ons and local desktop
        - RP: where to put cluster configuration stuff? How does the `configCluster`
          command work on the different clusters


- Have all exercises ready on Monday, so a tarball can be created

### Discuss

- Issue [#66](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/66) Python Schedule
    - Add 10 mins for parallel
    - RB: volunteers to remove all or some of isolated environments sections:
        - (-15 minutes) Only remove exercise 3: export and import a virtual environment
        - (-15 minutes) Only remove exercise 2 'work with Example-gpu
            - This is needed by the session on GPUs
            - BB can change the exercise without this exercise
        - (-30 minutes) Remove exercises 2 and 3
            - DECIDED: R moves these to Extra
        - (-60 minutes) Remove whole section
    - Isolated environment, on conda:
        - UPPMAX: only recommended on Bianca
        - LUNARC: talk to jonas
    - [ ] [RB will update schedule and then ping BB](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/66)
- Issue [#57](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/57) CoC email
    - Keep Richel's email, if things go wild, it will discussed in a meeting
- Other issues?
- Other things
    - Monday 13:00-14:00 onboarding at onboarding Zoom `[Zoom URL]`
        - Can be there: probably BB, RB, BC

### ToDos
