# Meeting 13 Sep 11:00

## Dates

week 43: Mon 21 Oct - Fri 25 Oct:

- Onboarding: Mon 21 Oct at : Bj+ Ri
- Python: Tuesday 22nd Oct: Re + Bi + PO ?Ri
- Julia: Wednesday 23rd Oct BC, P
- R: Thursday 24th Oct: Ri?
- Matlab: Friday 25th Oct: Bi + Bj + Pe + Re

General meetings on Fridays(?) every week

## agenda
   1. general
   2. python 
   3. R
   4. Matlab
   5. Julia

## Status update
- 27 so far registered

- 38 attended out of 61 in October 2023 
- 45 attended out of 82 in March 2024
- Course project
    - We do have a project allocation from LUNARC now, 
      https://supr.naiss.se/project/31438/
    - See also https://supr.naiss.se/admin/proposal/31993/
        - this is for our development!
    - student allocation as well
    - Project proposal submitted for HPC2N and for UPPMAX 

## Discuss
- general
    - RB: suggest: simplify interactive session to single-core job: it is beyond the teaching goal, nor is there time
        - vote: single: RB
        - [WINNER] vote: **1 core + 2 cores**: RP (preferred; if no time, show whichever is harder), BB, PO
        - vote: just 2 cores only (skip single allocation): BC
        - vote: wait until we know the new schedule and time-slots: BC, BB
    - RB: suggest: more time for sbatch and GPU
        - vote: yes: BC, PO (if we have exercises for R+GPU)
        - vote: no: PO (otherwise)
        - vote: No opinion: RB, RP
        - Rediscussion next week?
    - RB: suggest: parallel programming simpler exercises
        - vote: yes: RB (Pedro is stil boss though)
        - vote: no:
        - vote: No opinion: RP, BC
        - Rediscussion next week. YES
    - RB: suggest: what is the goal of the course? If it is an introduction, does this include topics like parallel computing and GPU? Where to draw the line?
        - Moved to future meeting
        - ?What people want
        - RP: Machine Learning out next time (RB agrees)
        - Note that Python has advertised less, so there is more freedom there. Will be discussed with the Python group
- python 
    - end 16.00 :+1: 
        -  decided
      
    - New meeting
        - schedule
            - timings
            - login at 9:15
            - ordinary starts at 10.00
        - [x] [DONE BY BC] RB will send a Doodle for Python-only meeting
        - [ ] RB will prepare a draft schedule to be discussed
    - 30 min jupyter+interactive
        - postpone to meeting
- R
    - NEW: 
        - end at 16.00 instead of 15:00
            - Expected to win 30 mins, due to login session from 9:15-10:00, as course material can be removed
    - parallel went too fast
    - more time with ML
        - Or, instead, reduce Machine Learning (RB agrees, RP agrees)
    - more time for questions
    - [x] [DONE BY BC] RB: schedules R meeting
    - [ ] RB: proposes draft schedule
    - evaluations
- Julia
    - NEW:
        - end at 16.00 instead of 15:00
            - Expected to win 30 mins, due to login session from 9:15-10:00, as course material can be removed
    - Intro sessions and batch took longer time
    - meeting
        - BC calls
        - see above for topics covered
- Matlab (BC, RP, BB, PO)
    - meeting (what date range?)
        - [ ] RP creates schedules a date using a Doodle-like thing
        - see above

## ToDos
    - move some of the material to extra reading? check possibility -> goal less talk
    - more time for exercises

