# Spring 2024

## Dates

* 11 March 11:00-12:00: On-boarding
* 12 March: Python
* 13 March: Julia
* 14 March: R

## Evaluation meeting 2024-03-27 at 13.30

* Student evaluations:
    * [Python](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UMVpNM1dGUEhPVFpKUDVOUlBRWkgyUFlWMi4u)
    * [Julia](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UNlY3NFUwODFMWDlDVFhUUkRMS01CSkQzSS4u)
    * [R](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQ0NUU1pWQ0taNlE2V0JRUllDQlMwMkdXSi4u)

* [Decided in meeting] Make the Python day last until 16:00
* [Decided in meeting] Seperate email for introduction to course and the prerequisites,
  most important info at the top; it's OK to repeat info
* We conclude that the course is improving from the course ratings, all of them have gone up

* [Ri, all, suggest/vote, 5 mins] I think Python by far got the most attention by us. What about try to have seperate meetings going per day?
    * BiBjRi: Yes
* [Ri, all] I am happy to see the prereqs page and the obvious love put in it. I am unsure of the page's purpose. Could we come up with a purpose of the page and vote? I volunteer to do the work. If we discuss: The goal of the prereqs page is ...
    * BiBjRi: ... that our learners can test/verify that they have the minimum skillset and have installed the minimum requirements for the course
    * [other votes]: [other suggestions]
* [Pedro, discuss] Make course material (even) more course agnostic by adding more links to other centers in course material. Bi: we should focus on one or two centers. Bi: in the near future, we may already be using Dardel, so we'll do this automatically. Bi: for UmU, course material must gathered at the course's site (i.e. cannot only link to UmU pages).
* [Bi, discuss] Will we use Rackham or Dardel in the fall? We will decide before summer.
* [Richel, Python & R, discuss] I think the summary of the evaluations of Python and R is 'talk less, demonstrate slower, more time for exercises'. To me, this seems like a recurring pattern. What about we help encourage outselves to commit to fixing this? My suggestion: to the learners' evaluation, add 'Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?' as a means to encourage use to do better
    * [VOTED] BiBjPeRi: Yes
* [Ri, Python & R, discuss] When reflecting on the evaluation results, Most questions were useless to me, as they did not help answer my teaching questions. I cannot predict which questions are mandatory, nor which are useful to others. Result: we inherited these questions and we do use these to some extent
    * [Agreed] We should check on adding text comments, next to the 'give a rating' qestions
    * [Agreed] Which section(s) scheduled enough time for exercises?
    * [Is more-or-less already in, keep the original question] What should we keep doing?
    * [Is more-or-less already in, keep the original question] What should we improve?
    * [Is more-or-less already in, keep the original question] Other comments?
* [AGREED][Ri, Python] Suggest at least 30 mins of time for UPPMAX's interactive+Jupyter: 15 mins is too short

* Fall planning
    * week 43: Tue 22 Oct -Fri 25 Oct
        * onboarding: Mon 21 Oct
        * Python: Tuesday 22nd Oct:
        * Julia: Wednesday 23rd Oct:
        * R: Thursday 24th Oct:
        * Matlab: Friday 25th Oct: Bi + Bj + Pe
* HPC Python: May 15th: leave everything the same: Bi + Bj + Pe teach, Ri assists
    * with updates of course from earlier learnings
    * py/3.11 (GPU UPPMAX perhaps other solution)

## Planning meeting 2024-03-11 9:30-(max)10:30

* [Richel, 1 min, FYI] Richel has not gotten the link checker to work, probably does not have the time to do so
    * skip for now
* .wordlist can be updated by all of us
* [Richel, 3 mins, FYI] Richel has not tested [Python packages](https://uppmax.github.io/R-python-julia-HPC/python/packages.html) and [Python isolated environments](https://uppmax.github.io/R-python-julia-HPC/python/isolated.html) on Kebnekaise yet, instead used the code that was present. AFAIK, I have no access to Kebnekaise
    * Birgitte has already double-checked, so we assume it to work :-)
* Should `--devcore` (UPPMAX only) be included in the session on batch?
    * [ ] Björn will add it :-)
* Onboarding at 11:00, we predict few people show up :-)
* [Richel, 3 mins, discuss] Time to put schedule of HackMD on Sphinx website?
    * Schedule can be assumed to be up-to-date...
    * Tip: Richel uses [this website](https://tableconvert.com/restructuredtext-generator) to create RST tables :-)
* [Richel, 3 mins, discuss] Evaluations before Q&A on all days?
    * [x] If yes: who does that? Björn will do :+1:
* Evaluations: Birgitte has them, will be in the Q&A document
* Parallel functions
    * [x] move to last Jl and R days
    * demo on kebnekaise
        * [x] Björn added demo box
    * exercises on batch
        * make clearer instructions how to run
            * UPPMAX: Björn
            * HPC2N: Pedro
* When parallel tracks, an Umeåner needs to start the recording in both Zoom rooms
    * First Zoom room:
        * `[Zoom URL]`
        * Meeting ID: 619 2226 4837
        * Passcode: 416707
    * Second Zoom room:
        * In the Q&A document: `[Zoom URL]`
* [x] Reschedule R to mimic Python day: Björn will do so
* [x] Reschedule Julia to mimic Python day: Björn will contact Pedro when ready
* Exercises Julia added by Pedro
    * [x] all except last exercise
    * [ ] batch exercise

## Planning meeting 2024-03-06 at 13:00-14:00

* Status
    * [Richel, Python, technical] : `python_ML_packages/3.9.5-gpu` seems to works perfectly with the `pytorch_fitting_gpu.py` script:

```
module load python_ML_packages/3.9.5-gpu
git clone https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-python-julia-HPC
cd R-python-julia-HPC
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd Exercises
python pytorch_fitting_gpu.py
```

* Birgitte: `pytorch_fitting_gpu-snowy.sh` does not work. Richel: I indeed needed `pip install -r requirements.txt`. Hence, the metapackage does not work correctly, as you need to install pytorch using pip
* Birgitte: `seaborn-code.py` in [the course content](https://uppmax.github.io/R-python-julia-HPC/python/batchPython.html#serial-code-self-installed-package-in-virt-env) does not work
* comment(BC):
    * Seems we have to stick with 3.9.5, since installation of 3.11.8 has not succeeded yet
    * If 3.11.8 is installed, use that one. Else, use 3.9.5.
    * Decision: Thursday March 7 12:00

* Discussion
    * [Richel, Python, isolated environments] The schedule states `**10.45**|Isolated environments (ML, venv, **conda**)|Richel (45-->60)`, with a stress on conda. Sharing the new teaching goals for isolated environments (below), however, showed the need for venv again. What need the teaching goals be?

```
        - learners have created, activated, used and deactivated a conda virtual environment
        - learners have used an ML package
        - learners have heard about venv
```

or back to the earlier: **YES**

```
        - learners have created, activated, used and deactivated a venv
        - learners have used an ML package
        - learners have heard about conda
```

Conclusion: use the good old venv, Richel misunderstood :-)

* Björn moved some content from index page to prereqs. <https://uppmax.github.io/R-python-julia-HPC/prereqs.html>
    * the links for improving programming skills
    * most of the cluster information
    * Comments?
        * Add using 2FA on the ThinLinc local client /Björn
    * To discuss:
        * Is it OK to take a quick explanation of the most important things
            * login & compute nodes and cores
            * similarities and differences between Kebnekaise and UPPMAX clusters
        * DONE
    * Richel: teacher is boss :-) . The UPPMAX docs are tested and nice and used by other courses: prefer working on one source of content
        * SSH X forwarding<http://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/ssh_x_forwarding/>
            * DONE
        * Björn adds XMING in prereqs
            * DONE
        * Refer to UPPMAX doc [Remote desktop via webbrowser](http://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/login_rackham/#remote-desktop), including using 2FA
            * DONE
        * Text editors: <http://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/text_editors/>
            * DONE
        * Linux: <http://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/linux/>
            * DONE

* [Richel, 5 mins] Suggest to conformize folder names at <https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-python-julia-HPC>: `Exercises`, `R`, `docs`, `summaryPython.rst`, `packages_suggest.rst`, `sequential-python.sh`
    * Richel's suggestion: `all_lower_snake_case_with_underscores`, Richel volunteers to do so
    * Birgitte: this year folders only, next time I'll promise to rename the files :-) .
        * `exercises`, `folder_with_more_names`
        * [ ] Richel does it today before 23:59 :+1:
        * [ ] Richel checks link checker

* Birgitte: some UPPMAX questions. These were already answered :-)
* Type-alongs
    * Björn added ``.. type-along::`` are the tags for type-along blocks.
    * Björn  can continue for R
    * Instructors will add this to their content if it is used in Python
* Next events:
    * Onboarding: Monday March 11th 11:00-(max)12:00
    * Planning meeting: Monday March 11th 9:30-(max)10:30

## Planning meeting 2024-02-29 11:00-12:00
* Richel will be absent
* Björn and Richel thought that they had a nearly-mandatory event in the afternoon at the R day on March 14th. However, it was in the morning. Vote:
    * Björn and Richel teach in the afternoon of the R day, Birgitte and Pedro teach in the morning: :-1:
    * Björn and Richel cancel the nearly-mandatory event and teach in the morning: **We do this**
    * Move the R day to another date: :-1:
    * Latest info: the nearly-mandatory event may be prostponed for other reasons

* Status:
    * Problems with ML_packages installation

* ToDos
    * Richel
        * check 3.11 compatibility with exercises at UPPMAX
        * will go through <https://uppmax.github.io/R-python-julia-HPC/python/isolated.html> and check if it work with python/3.11.8 combined with ML_packages/3.11.8-GPU Tuesday 5th March
    * Björn:
        * type-along boxes
            * julia done?
        * index page strip
        * Prereqs more info
        * Julia parts updates
        * quiz


## Planning meeting 2024-02-22 11:00–12:00

* Status
    * Diana is installing ML_packages/3.11.8-GPU today
        * theano problem??
        * Theano is not compatible with modern numpy 1.25.x (as we have with Python 3.1
        * pytensor is the continuation
        * but use first in HPC-python course
        * pytensor will be installed at Rackham

* ToDos
    * Björn:
        * check 3.11 compatibility with exercises at UPPMAX
        * type-along boxes
        * Prereqs more info


## Schedule for the spring 2024 version

### Python (Tuesday 2024-03-12)

Time     |Topic                      |Teacher
---------|---------------------------|-------
**9.00** |Syllabus                   |Birgitte
**9.10** |Python in general          |Birgitte
**9.20** |Load modules and run       |Birgitte
**9.45** |Break                      |.
**10:00**|Packages  (45-->30)        |Richel
**10.30**|Break                      |.
**10.45**|Isolated environments (ML, venv, **conda**)|Richel (45-->60)
**11:45**|Break or informal chat     |Richel
**12.00**|Lunch                      |.
**13.00**|Batch                      |Birgitte
**13:20**|GPU                        |Birgitte
**13.30**|Kebnekaise: Jupyter        |Birgitte
.        |Rackham:  Interactive session and Jupyter         |Richel
**13.45**|Break                      |.
**14.00**|Parallel and multithreaded functions|Pedro
**14.25**|Conclusion & Q/A           |Birgitte
**14.45**|Evaluation                 |.
**15.00**|END

### Julia (Wednesday 2024-03-13)

Time     |Topic                      |Teacher
---------|---------------------------|-------
**9.00** |Syllabus    7               |Björn
**9.10** |Intro, Julia in general 23   |Pedro
**9.30** |Load modules and run   16    |Björn
**9:45** |Break                      |.
**10:00**|Packages and isolated 47     |Pedro (and Björn)
**11:00**|Break                      |.
**11:15**|Parallel and multithreaded functions 30|Pedro
**11.45**|Break or informal chat or exer|all?
**12.00**|Lunch                      |.
**13.00**|Batch and GPU     46         |Pedro
**13.50**|Break                      |.
**14.00**|UPPMAX: Jupyter and interactive 25 |Björn
.        |HPC2N: Jupyter             |Pedro
**14.25**|Conclusion and summary, Q/A|Björn
**14.35**|Evaluation                 |Anon [R volunteers]
**14.45**|Q/A                |Anon [R volunteers]
**15.00**|END                        |.

### R (Thursday 2024-03-14)

Time     |Topic                            |Teacher
---------|---------------------------------|-------
**9:00** |Syllabus                         |Richel
**9:10** |R in general                     |Richel
**9:20** |Load modules and run             |Richel
**9:45** |Break                            |.
**10:00**|Packages                         |Birgitte
**10:30**|Break                            |.
**10:45**|Kebnekaise, ThinLinc & RStudio   |Pedro
.        |UPPMAX: ThinLinc, RStudio, inter-|Björn <--- NEW
**11:15**|Parallel                         |Pedro
**11:50**|Break or informal chat           |All
**12:00**|Lunch                            |.
**13:00**|Isolated environments            |Birgitte
**13:20**|Batch                            |Birgitte
**13:50**|Break                            |.
**14:00**|ML                               |Birgitte or Pedro <--- NEW
**14:35**|Conclusion & Q/A                 |All
**14:45**|Evaluation                       |.
**15:00**|END                              |.


## Planning meeting 2024-02-15 11:00–12:00
* How many registered
    * 55
* Status
    * BC: started prereq page to be filled

* Discuss
    * Skip bianca parallel session for all days. Vote yes!
    * No intro at 9.00 for slurm

* ToDos:
    * Björn:
        * type-along boxes
        * Py-ml UPPMAX
        * Prereqs more info
    * Pedro: several docs for parallel


## Planning meeting 2024-02-09 11:00–12:00

* Discuss:
    * depth of parallelism/ML for python
        * same level as for julia and R?
        * Yes, show an ML example
    * We use R 4.1.x! R versions 4.3.1 + 4.3. (Birgitte checks the packages)
        * HPC2N has R/4.3.2 but a lot fewer packages than for R/4.0.4. I have inquired about getting some packages installed as modules
        * 4.3.2 is lacking many packages, including the Bioconductor bundle which is not yet available for installation.
        * **4.1.x chosen instead.**
        * UPPMAX: 4.1.1
    * python_ML new version would be nice [name=Björn] checks
        * wish: 3.11.(3,8)
        * At HPC2N, Python **3.11.3** is installed. All relevant packages except Theano and ASE are available for that version of Python. We can probably ask for those packages if we need them
        * At UPPMAX: **3.11.8**
    * julia 1.8.5
    * [R, suggest vote] follow pace of schedule or follow pace of learners?
        * [VOTED FOR] Pace of schedule with flexibility of 15 mins in both directions
            * pro:
                * easy to schedule who teaches what
                * comfortable to teach
                * higher evaluation scores
                * clear for learners when takes place what
            * con:
                * can mismatch with learners
            * votes: Birgitte, Björn, Pedro
        * Pace of learners
            * pro:
                * the right speed
                * needs procedure, e.g. <https://richelbilderbeek.github.io/awk_course/misc/exercise_procedure/>
            * con:
                * harder to schedule
                * not everyone comfortable with teaching like that
                * setting learners to work will result in lower evaluation scores
            * votes: Richel
    * [R, suggest vote] evaluation yes/no?
        * [VOTED] Yes (pro: we get feedback, con: can be unpleasant): Birgitte, Björn, Pedro, Richel
        * No (pro: not unpleasant, con: no feedback to improve on): -
    * [R, suggest vote] order: evaluation-then-Q&A or Q&A-then-evaluation?
        * [VOTED] evaluation-then-Q&A (pro: learners can leave at Q&A): Birgitte, Björn, Pedro, Richel
        * Q&A-then-evaluation: -
    * [R, suggest vote] publish evaluation results online yes/no?
        * [VOTED] Yes (pro: shows transparency (e.g. <https://github.com/richelbilderbeek/teaching>), con: not everyone can rightly value an evaluation): Birgitte, Björn, Pedro, Richel
        * No (pro: no trouble, con: links and info get lost):
* Menti responsible (the person needs to nbe available all day)
    * Python day: no polls, so no person needed
    * Julia day: Björn
    * R day: Birgitte
* [False positive] Although <https://www.uppmax.uu.se/support/courses-and-workshops/r-python-julia> links to <https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/> it does not matter: it is not the course material :-)


## Planning meeting 2024-01-31

* [Vote] Use Zoom Poll or Menti or text in shared document: will use Menti. Birgitte will prepare
    * Zoom Poll: only host
        * Votes: Birgitte, Pedro
    * Menti: everyone more-or-less needs separate account
        * Votes: Richel, Björn, Birgitte
    * Plain text (in a shared document)
        * Votes: Richel, Pedro, (Birgitte)
    * MENTI WON!
* [Richel, FYI] Björn and/or Richel can teach R at March 14th in the morning, but not in the afternoon.
    * We rescheduled so that Uppsala people teach in the morning and the Umeå people in the afternoon
* [Richel, vote] some UPPMAX courses are restructured by **referring to the UPPMAX documentation pages**. In that way, content can be found in exactly one place. An example can be found [here](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/morning_session/working_with_python_scripts/#exercise-1-create-a-python-script). As this course also teaches Kebnekaise, referring to [its documentation](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/support) would work too. Richel volunteers to do so for the Python course (as he taught another similar Python course too). Good idea yes/no?
    * Important with new tab. Try this time!
    * VOTE:
        * for: Richel, Björn, Birgitte, (Pedro)
        * against: (Pedro)
* Evaluations
    * Both Julia & R: Type-along clearer (boxes) and talk about it!
    * good level
    * more exercises
    * more about ThinLinc (technical prereqs can be expanded with more info and background and pros and cons)


### Schedule
* slurm is integrated with interactive/batch each day (take a break!)

#### R (Thursday 2024-03-14)

Time     |Topic                            |Teacher
---------|---------------------------------|-------
**9:00** |Syllabus                         |Richel
**9:10** |R in general                     |Richel
**9:20** |Load modules and run             |Richel
**9:45** |Break                            |.
**10:00**|Packages                         |Birgitte
**10:30**|Break                            |.
**10:45**|Kebnekaise, ThinLinc & RStudio   |Pedro
.        |UPPMAX: ThinLinc, RStudio, inter-|Richel
**11:15**|Kebnekaise: Parallel             |Pedro
.        |skip? *UPPMAX: Bianca*           |Richel
**11:50**|Break or informal chat           |All
**12:00**|Lunch                            |.
**13:00**|Isolated environments            |Birgitte
**13:20**|Batch                            |Birgitte
**13:50**|Break                            |.
**14:00**|ML                               |?
**14:35**|Conclusion & Q/A                 |All
**14:45**|?Evaluation                      |.
**15:00**|END                              |.

* Teachers
    * Python (Tue)
        * Richèl, same topics as previous time: Packages, Isolated environments, Rackham: Jupyter, Bianca: Conda, interactive
        * Birgitte, same topics as previous time
    * Julia (Wed)
        * Björn (same as last time)
        * Pedro
    * R (Thu)
        * Richel can teach morning only
        * Björn teach first hour (afternoon if needed) or standby


## Planning meeting (Jan 24 at 11)

* Discuss
    * menti
    * Zoom can also do something similar called a Poll, which is ideal for quicker things. It does need to be shared :-)
        * :+1: :+1:

    * We will vote between using Zoom Poll and Menti next week Wednesday 31 Jan at 13:00, Birgitte will prepare
    * We used Python version 3.9.5, because that worked well with ML. We try to go to a newer version of Python, if that has made to works well with ML too.

* Evaluations
    * python: done, see results [here](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-python-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20231017)
    * Julia
    * R
    * General
        * cheat sheets
        * short intros
        * slurm first 30 minutes everyday or so
        * think about extending
* Teachers
    * Python (Tue)
        * Richèl, same topics as previous time: Packages, Isolated environments, Rackham: Jupyter, Bianca: Conda, interactive
        * Birgitte, same topics as previous time
    * Julia (Wed)
        * Björn (same as last time)
        * Pedro
    * R (Thu)
        * Richel can teach morning only
        * Björn teach first hour (afternoon if needed) or standby

* Needed updates
    * Py module
        * UPPMAX update ML

    * R module
        * newer?
    * Don't go too deep. Examples:
        * determining number of cores
        * ML and multiple GPUs?

