## Meeting Fri 27 Sep at 11-12

## Dates

week 43: Mon 21 Oct - Fri 25 Oct:

- Onboarding: Mon 21 Oct at : Bj+ Ri
- Python: Tuesday 22nd Oct: Re + Bi + PO ?Ri
- Julia: Wednesday 23rd Oct BC, P
- R: Thursday 24th Oct: Ri?
- Matlab: Friday 25th Oct: Bi + Bj + Pe + Re

General meetings on Fridays(?) every week

### Status

- General
    - Registered
        - 34 have registered, after last-week's newsletter
        - Next newsletter is next week
    - Projects
        - Teacher's NAISS project exists since today, for a year, so we can test everything there
        - [ ] BC will add Rackham and Snowy too
    - Prereqs?
        - Not done anything yet: BC, RB
        - [ ] RB will go through it
    - Syllabus?
        - RB added schedules to Python and R (formatting is bad)
        - Non-Björn should restructure this
            - [ ] RB will add Pull Requests for Python and R courses
        - see discussion


- *Briefly* about doings that can be interesting for all
    - Python
        - Settled on schedule, it's at the course website
    - R
        - Settled on schedule, it's at the course website
    - MATLAB
    - Julia

### General discussions

- Syllabus
    - Non-Björn should restructure this.
        - Too much text
        - log in info can be moved to login sessions, see below
        - Discussed earlier that the cluster overview should be here
            - still agreeing on this?
    - Any volunteer?
        - [ ] RB will add Pull Requests for Python and R courses, so teachers can disagree
        - When discussing X, it should be clear if it applies to all or some clusters.
        - The prereqs has a section on our clusters and it can have some repetition
        - We like pictures
        - The job scheduler is similar for all
        - HPC2N has new types of nodes and 6 different types of GPUs
        - Common part on the job scheduler, we use the same document for each
- Common batch intro
    - [ ] BB will write the common part on the job scheduler, we use the same document for each course
    - use existing batch documents for the exercise parts (shorter)
- Login document(s)
    - [ ] RB will write this document and ask for feedback before next meeting
    - Form:
        - [DECIDED] Person in charge of that day decides on how the login session is done
            - Onboarding (only 1 session, Mo): by BB and RB
            - Login before Python (Tue): BB with other members BB RB RP
            - Login before Julia (Wed): BC with other members BB PO RP (will leave after)
            - Login before R (Thu): RB with other members BB RP (will leave after)
            - Login before Matlab (Fri): RP with other members RB BB
            - BB + RB: Good documentation, so the learners can go through these
            - Type-along
            - dependent on how many show up
    - 1-degree of freedom
        - cluster
    - Common document, ideally 1 document, with parts that are separated by cluster in tabs
    - Use breakout rooms per center, start in main room
    - alt1: general
        - pros: gathered
        - cons: too many degrees of freedom in one place if includeing lan
    - alt2: langauage specific
        - pros: just need tabs for the clusters
        - cons: 4 different login documents
        -

### ToDos general

- prereqs
    - [ ] [#35](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/35) RB + BC: improve
- syllabus renewal
    - [x] BC: makes an issue of the steps
    - [ ] RB: review by Pull Request for R and Python
    - [ ] BB will write the common part on the job scheduler, we use the same document for each course
- login document(s)
    - [x] BC: move from syllabus
        - [ ] will add Rackham and Snowy
- NEXT

### The topics

- [Python](https://hackmd.io/o_b5yHAJRBeQfTbNvYOK2A#)
- [R](https://hackmd.io/gV_gdctHQPWz6eElFWfq6Q#)
- [Matlab](https://hackmd.io/RTujs9MnS0ehsGD7ufNBfA#)
- [Julia](https://hackmd.io/ERX9FIgyR_6wDbmcqi_8HA#)


### General input from student

- emailing fascilities of SLURM should maybe be higlighted better
- how should you think about getting data into an out of a running job in a structured way?

----

## Schedule (updates are given in the sub-pages)

### Python (Tuesday 2024-10-22)

#### Current Python schedule

Time     |Topic                      |Teacher
---------|---------------------------|-------
**9.00** |Syllabus                   |Rebecca
**9.10** |Python in general          |Rebecca
**9.20** |Load modules and run       |Rebecca
**9.45** |Break                      |.
**10:00**|Packages  (45-->30)        |Richel
**10.30**|Break                      |.
**10.45**|Isolated environments (ML, venv, **conda**)|Richel (45-->60)
**11:45**|Break or informal chat     |Richel
**12.00**|Lunch                      |.
**13.00**|Batch                      |Birgitte
**13:20**|GPU                        |Birgitte
**13.30**|Kebnekaise: Jupyter        |Birgitte
.        |Rackham:  Interactive session and Jupyter         |Richel
**13.45**|Break                      |.
**14.00**|Parallel and multithreaded functions|Pedro
**14.25**|Conclusion & Q/A           |Birgitte
**14.45**|.                          |.
**15.00**|END


### Julia (Wednesday 2024-10-23)

Time     |Topic                              |Teacher
---------|-----------------------------------|-------
**9.00** |Syllabus    7                      |Björn
**9.10** |Intro, Julia in general 23         |Pedro
**9.30** |Load modules and run   16          |Björn
**9:45** |Break                              |.
**10:00**|Packages and isolated 47           |Pedro (and Björn)
**11:00**|Break                              |.
**11:15**|Parallel+multithreaded functions 30|Pedro
**11.45**|Break or informal chat or exer     |all?
**12.00**|Lunch                              |.
**13.00**|Batch and GPU     46               |Pedro
**13.50**|Break                              |.
**14.00**|UPPMAX: Jupyter and interactive 25 |Björn
.        |HPC2N: Jupyter                     |Pedro
**14.25**|Conclusion and summary, Q/A        |Björn
**14.35**|.                                  |.
**14.45**|Q/A                                |.
**15.00**|END                                |.

### R (Thursday 2024-10-24)

#### Current R schedule

Time     |Topic                            |Teacher
---------|---------------------------------|-------
**9:00** |Syllabus                         |Richel
**9:10** |R in general                     |Richel
**9:20** |Load modules and run             |Richel
**9:45** |Break                            |.
**10:00**|Packages                         |Birgitte
**10:30**|Break                            |.
**10:45**|Kebnekaise, ThinLinc & RStudio   |Pedro
.        |UPPMAX: ThinLinc, RStudio, inter-|Richel
**11:15**|Parallel                         |Pedro
**11:50**|Break or informal chat           |All
**12:00**|Lunch                            |.
**13:00**|Isolated environments            |Birgitte
**13:20**|Batch                            |Birgitte
**13:50**|Break                            |.
**14:00**|ML                               |Birgitte or Pedro <--- NEW
**14:35**|Conclusion & Q/A                 |All
**14:45**|Evaluation                       |.
**15:00**|END                              |.


### Matlab (Friday 2024-10-25)

- [name=Birgitte] **NOTE: I just used the same times as for R, and added the topics we mentioned during the first meeting about Matlab

Time     |Topic                            |Teacher
---------|---------------------------------|-------
**9:00** |Syllabus                         |Rebecca?
**9:10** |Matlab in general                |Rebecca?
**9:20** |Load modules and run             |Rebecca?
**9:45** |Break                            |.
**10:00**|add-ons/packages                 |Björn?
**10:30**|Break                            |.
**10:45**|Slurm (matlab agnostic)          |Birgitte?
**11:15**|Parallel, syntax, pool, matlab batch, shell batch|Pedro?
**12:00**|Lunch                            |.
**13:00**|Parallel - continued?            |Pedro?
**13:20**|GPU                              |?
**13:50**|Break                            |.
**14:00**|PARALLEL SESSIONS - desktop on demand (COSMOS)|Rebecca
**14:00**|PARALLEL SESSIONS - local desktop (UPPMAX)|Björn
**14:00**|PARALLEL SESSIONS - (jupyter notebook)|Pedro
**14:35**|interaction with other tools (brief)|?
**14:50**|Conclusion & Q/A                 |All
**15:00**|Evaluation                       |.
**15:15**|END                              |.
