## Meeting 14 Feb 13.00

Agenda

- Status
- Resources
- Follow-up general
- Language Meetings 
- Evaluation
- Improvements

### Status

- Can all write in repo? [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main)
    - Yes: BB, PO (aka `armando`), RB
    - No: contact Bj√∂rn :-)

- Number of registrations as of today: 26
    - majority: R + nothing/Julia/MATLAB
    - 2x only Julia
    - 1x only MATLAB
    - many only R
    - few R, Julia, MATLAB

###  Resources

- Summary in [#159](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/159) and #[160](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/160)
- [ ] Birgitte: asks course project for all centers (UPPMAX/HPC2N/LUNARC)
    - need to add Dardel
        - Yes: BB, RB (it seems we must anyways:-))
        - No:
    - need to add Tetralith
    - (BB) Have applied for (compute + default storage): HPC2N, UPPMAX, NSC, PDC 
    - Need to apply for: LUNARC (compute - do we need storage?)

### Follow-up general

- No transfer to MkDocs yet, as decided week before. Transfer maybe in Autumn
- Moving meeting notes to someplace else?
    - Yes: RB
    - **Last ones in HackMD, older to GitHub**: BB, BC, RB
    - No:
- **Move meetings to 5 minutes later**?
    - Yes: BB, BC, RB
    - No:
- Do we need a common login session, i.e. onboarding?
    - We already have one
    - Make it mandatory?
        - Yes:
        - **No**
- Onboarding, Friday 2025-03-21, what time:
    - **11:00**: BB, RB, BC
- Form of onboarding:
    - introduction by us, then questions: BB, PO
    - **just questions in breakout rooms**: BB, RB, BC, PO
        - Will need a link to login session of the HPC centers
- Morning sessions make sure exercises and project folders can be reached

### Language meetings

- R: issues
- Julia: issues
- MATLAB: wait for RP

We assume teachers check if their material works on the different HPC centers.

### Next meeting for general stuff

Week 11: Friday March 14th at 11:05 :-)
