# 4-day Introduction to running R, Python, Julia, MATLAB in HPC

- Course ZOOM: `[Zoom URL]`
- Planning zoom: `[Zoom URL]`

## Materials page

- [Rendered](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
- [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main)


### Old

- [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
- [Rendered](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)

## Topics planning

- ([Python](https://hackmd.io/o_b5yHAJRBeQfTbNvYOK2A#))
    - [name=Richel] can we remove this? It is not relevant for this course
- [Julia](https://hackmd.io/ERX9FIgyR_6wDbmcqi_8HA#)
- [R](https://hackmd.io/gV_gdctHQPWz6eElFWfq6Q#)
- [Matlab](https://hackmd.io/RTujs9MnS0ehsGD7ufNBfA#)

# Spring 2025

## Dates

- 21 Mar 11.00 Onboarding
- 24 Mar R
- 25 Mar Matlab
- 26 Mar Julia

## Meeting 29 Jan

Agenda

- Status
- Resources
- Teachers
- Language Meetings
- Evaluation
- Improvements
- Helper from mathworks?
- ToDos

### Status

- advertised in newsletter
- registrations, as of 2025-01-31 11:05:
    - 14 R
    - 7 MATLAB
    - 5 Julia
- course pages at:
    - [HPC2N](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/r-matlab-julia)
    - [UPPMAX](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/R_matlab_julia/)
- repos
    - [New 3-day](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
    - [Old 4-day](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)

### Resources

For this course, we already support:

- Rackham
    - Need o
- COSMOS
- Kebnekaise

We need to decide upon also supporting:

- Tetralith: Yes
- Dardel: Yes
    - Unsure if Dardel has ThinLinc, Bj√∂rn checks
- ALVIS: Wait until next time


### Teachers

- Keep the same?
    - Yes: RB, BB, PO, RP (could use a 2nd person for LUNARC things)
    - No:
- Changes:
    - RB will do LUNARC, BC will fill in the gaps

### Language Meetings

A person that decides when these
smaller groups meet:

Language|Who
--------|-------
R       |BB, PO, RB (talk via issues/Matrix)
MATLAB  |BC, BB, PO, RP (meeting next week)
Julia   |BC, PO (talk via issues/Matrix)

We'll have a quick meeting in the lunch breaks of the
NAISS support staff meeting at Feb 6 2025.

### Evaluation summary

#### R (6 answers)

You can find these [here](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20241024)

- [name=Richel] my [reflection, including plans to improve, none of which involve other teachers/sessions](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/reflections/20241022_richel/README.md)

- Good
    - exercises, examples, envs
- improve
    - a bit deeper exerc
    - more exerc
    - too much cpu theory
    - 1 main example may be enough
    - login just once
    - envs
    - (par, RStudio)
- Low confidence
    - envs
    - paralell
    - interactive (1 no)
    - identify if on login node
    - RStudio

#### MATLAB (3 answers)

- Good
    - batch from both in-/outside
    - material, format, recorded
    - good examples
- Improve
    - more batch script examples
- Low confidence
    - desktop (no-one attended)
    - parall
    - jupyter (no-one attended)
    - add-ons (no-one attended)
    - GPU


#### Julia

(2 people answered but only followed the recordings)

- Good
    - material
    - recording
- Improve
    - more examples/exercises
    - (avoid exam week)
- Low confidence
    - package
    - environments


### Improvements

- think of having login in on-boarding
- login as recording as well

- [name=Richel] (as I am absent, let's move this to a future meeting? On the other hand, my vote is indicated) Can we vote **if** we want to convert the course materials to use MkDocs?
    - Yes: RB
    - Neutral:
    - No, not this time: BC
    - Wait until a real decision on what to use in NAISS
        - seems, at least, that mkdocs will be used
- [name=Richel] (as I am absent, let's move this to a future meeting? On the other hand, my vote is indicated) if we want to convert the course materials to use MkDocs, can we vote for
  when?
    - Before next course in April 2025: RB
    - Before next course in end of 2025: BC
    - Before next course in early 2026:
    - Before next course in end of 2026:
- [name=Richel] (as I am absent, let's move this to a future meeting? On the other hand, my vote is indicated) Can we vote to **if** we want to keep/move/remove meeting notes of previous meeting?
    - Keep here:
    - Move to someplace else: RB
    - Remove:
- [name=Richel] (as I am absent, let's move this to a future meeting? On the other hand, my vote is indicated) If we want to move the meeting notes to someplace else, can we vote where:
    - to a GitHub repo (e.g. like Programming Formalisms](<https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms/meeting_notes/>)): RB
    - to a HackMD: RB
    - to someplace else:
- [name=Richel] (as I am absent, let's move this to a future meeting? On the other hand, my vote is indicated) It is common that people are late for this meeting. They probably have good reasons, e.g. meetings ending at 11:00. What about we move the meeting to start 5 minutes later?

### MATLAB: TA from Mathworks

- Mathwork's Raymond Norris is interested in helping out with a TA.
    - support in shared document YES
    - And give input to material YES
    - also updating config scripts to more streamlined among NAISS resources
        - BC use naiss chat to ask
    - enough time YES
    - are we open YES
    - [name=richel] I vote neutral, let the MATLAB people decide. Else, I'd vote in favor of this, as to try this out

## TODOs

- [ ] [name=BC] UPPMAX teacher project
- [ ] [name=BC] check Dardel and ThinLinc and languages

### Next meeting

14 Feb 13.00
