# Introduction to running R, MATLAB and Julia in HPC

- Course ZOOM: [...]
    - Meeting ID: [...]
    - Passcode: [...]
- Planning zoom: [...]

## Materials page

- [Rendered](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
- [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main)

## Topics planning

- [R](https://hackmd.io/gV_gdctHQPWz6eElFWfq6Q#)
- [Matlab](https://hackmd.io/RTujs9MnS0ehsGD7ufNBfA#)
- [Julia](https://hackmd.io/ERX9FIgyR_6wDbmcqi_8HA#)

# Autumn 2025

- **6-8 October**
- R: Mon 6 Oktober
- MATLAB: Tue 7 Oktober
- Julia: Wed 8 Oktober
- Advanced: Fri 10 Oct

## Meeting 29 Aug 11.00

### Goals

- Get us on track
- Decide on key things before we do further work
- (Look a bit more on the last day)

### Non-goals

- Schedules of individual days
- Discuss things that are unrelated to the practical matters of the course
- Debate things based on incomplete information

### Agenda

- Status
- Follow-up
- General discussions and decisions
- ToDos
- Last day last (or another day)

### Follow-up: Decided last time

- we should **convert the GitHub repo of this course to MkDocs**, over waiting for Erik Lindahl to pick an MkDocs theme
    - **[DECIDED] Yes, using a parallel file tree on `main`
        (e.g. `docs` for sphinx, `docs-mk` for markdown): RB, BB, BC, PO, RP**

[Added 2025-08-29] RB: it has been named [docs-mk](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/docs-mk) and I think that that is just as fine

- pick the MkDocs **theme most of us like**:
    - `materials` (e.g. [NAISS File Transfer](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_file_transfer_course/)):  RB
    - ReadTheDocs theme (e.g. [NAISS Intermediate bash](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/)): BB, PO
        - better with search function
    - [DECIDED] `material` with ReadTheDocs theme (e.g. at Chalmers): BB, LS, BC
        - also better search function
        - we can confer with Chalmers for solutions!
        - Volunteer to do first step: BC

[Added 2025-08-29] RB: as the most used theme, the `materials` theme has the most options and plugins.

- The `materials` theme supports more admonitions
    - [test on ReadTheDocs theme](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/misc/test_admonitions/)
    - [same page with `materials`](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/misc/test_admonitions/)
- Only the `materials` theme supports [mermaid](https://mermaid.live/)
    - [test on ReadTheDocs theme](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/misc/test_mermaid/)
    - [same page with `materials`](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/misc/test_mermaid/))


- Q: Should we keep having an optional login session?
    - [DECIDED] Yes: RB, RP, BC, BB

- [Added 2025-08-29] Q: Do we have an on-boarding?
    - [DECIDED] No

- Q: Should we have other courses as prequisites?
    - [DECIDED] No, but link to it from the prerequisites: RB, BC, LS
- Q: Should we add fetching the tarball in the login (and preparation) session?
    - [DECIDED] No: BB (it would take away course time for people that do not do this, they will not read/do it, will give me more admin), LS, RP
- Q: Should we have the Zoom link in the tarball?
    - [DECIDED] No: RB, BB, BC, RP, LS
- Q: [DECIDED] cover HPC-specific topics (e.g. the module system, the job scheduler) enough to be confident and comfortable in doing the exercises
    - [BC] Knowing HPC clusters minimally is in the prereqs
- Let prerequisites point more to other courses
          (e.g. the module system, the job scheduler)
    - [DECIDED, BC seems willing to do this]
- theory minimized, just get started!
    - like:
        - train writing a batch script
    - focus on specific needs for the specific language
    - cluster understanding in preparations
    - [DECIDED] Up to teachers to teach how they think is best in their situation given their personality


[MOVED TO DAY 4] 'Machine learning'
[MOVED TO DAY 4]  'Parallel'

- RB will do so at the Advanced day, for R, MATLAB and Julia. Will be discussed later in this meeting ..
[KEEP] 'Isolated environments'

- Q: How to teach the last day?
    - Some ideas:
        - General theory and tabs per language
        - Split per language
        - Split the day in half
    - Will discuss more later ...

### Status

- How far come with MkDocs?
    - **RB: his R material as good as done!**
    - **LS: started with Julia**
    - Others not
- Last day?
    - RB: just volunteered


### General discussions and decision

- How do people convert RST to MkDocs?
    - RB: use an editor and change by hand. This takes me minutes, not hours

#### NAISS chat room name

- [Richel] I think it make us look needlessly stupid if we the NAISS matrix room is called `R-Julia-Matlab` when MATLAB is spelled in uppercase. Can we rename the room to `R-Julia-MATLAB` (or any other variation, see next point)?
    - [x] DONE
- [Linus] I think we should try to keep the order of the three the same as scheduled order everywhere, to cut down on unnecessary confusion.
    - Leave as it is `R-Julia-Matlab`:
    - Rename to `R-Julia-MATLAB`: RB
    - Rename to `R-MATLAB-Julia`: LS, BC
        - reason: both order of schedule and popularity right now
    - Use alphabetic order: `Julia-MATLAB-R`: RB
        - reason: schedule and popularity changes, as proven by the current name :-)

#### Sphinx vs Mkdocs revisited

- RB: I am happy to have a technical discussion once in a while.
  On the other hand, at the previous meeting, 5 out of the 5 people present voted for moving to MkDocs.
  Due to this, I think the chance to overturn that vote is very slim.
- See issue [#152](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/issues/152)
    - main thing is that copy button with combination of julia modes and other languages and virtual environments and terminal are much better handled in Sphinx
        - RB: I would love to see the problem in action and be convinced that a text box is not good enough!
          Could there be a demo?
            - <https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/julia/isolatedJulia.html>
                - RB: what does it show that is a problem?
                    - RB: it shows that you can copy the content for a code box that has a prompt in it, where it only copies the text after the prompt
        - BC: I realized that when prompt is changing
        - BC: Finally noticed that not even Sphinx can handle the julia complex repl when we have environments involved. That makes me leave Sphinx


        ```
        (my-first-env) pkg> add DFTK
        Resolving package versions...
        Updating `/path-to-my-project/$USER/julia/my-    first-    env/Project.toml`
        [acf6eb54] + DFTK v0.6.2
         Updating `/path-to-my-project/$USER/julia/my-first-    env/Manifest.toml` 
        ```

    - Workaround could be to either state that prompt (like ``]``, ``?``, ``>>``, ``$``, ``(environmental names)``) and output from command
        - should be left out when copy-pasting and
        - basically do not use copy button
    - OR to leave out all prompts and state above snippet what it refers to
- RB: don't forget what MkDocs does better:
    - Markdown is one of the most popular technologies according to
       [the StackOverflow 2024 survey](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology),
       where RST does not even show up.
        - Markdown is a very plausible choice for Sphinx as well because we have the ``myst`` plugin.
            - RB: I'd be happy to use that plugin then, over writing RST
    - Due to this, there are more tools for Markdown, especially continuous integration scripts
  for link checking: we have never been able to set it up correctly for RST.
        - [BC] I thought it worked well now?
            - links work
                - RB: [no, does not detect broken links](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/actions/runs/17318343433)
                   at [this RST test page](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/r/testR.html)
            - spelling works
                - RB: [yes, does indeed detect spelling errors](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/actions/runs/17318343446/job/49165729230)
                   at [this RST test page](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/r/testR.html)

    - I am quite fond of the 'Automate everything' idea.
    - Tool: text editor (replace) by hand
        - mys converter works for sphinx
- Vote
    - [DECIDED] continue progression to MkDocs + MD: RB, RP+BB+BC (assuming we can finish), LS
        - RB volunteers to convert to MkDocs, e.g. PO's Parallel material for last day (and will teach that too)
    - stay with sphinx but RST--> MD (myst):
    - stay with sphinx and RST (nothing changed): RP+BB+BC (assuming we cannot finish the conversion in time), PO
    -

#### Other Questions to solve

Book meeting:

- Advanced:
    - Monday 1st Sep 11:00
        - RB will be absent, will accept all decisions :-)

- no MATLAB the 4th day?
- everything included, need to remove something
    - RB: I think [the R day schedule is perfect](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/docs-mk/r/schedule.md)
- mv jupyter (either extra or advanced day)

#### When to meet in language groups?

- R
    - RB: this is me and BB. We'll meet as often as we think we need :-)
    - BB: agree, this will work :-)
- Julia
    - issues
- MATLAB:
    - issues
- Advanced:
    - Monday 1st Sep 11:00


## Earlier meetings

[Meeting 4 June](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250604.md)

[All meetings](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/meeting_notes)
