# Autumn 2025

- **6-8 October**
- R: Mon 6 Oktober
- MATLAB: Tue 7 Oktober
- Julia: Wed 8 Oktober
- Advanced: Fri 10 Oct

## Debriefing + planning meeting June 4 at 13:00

### Goals

- go through evaluations
- form the groups (they can start meeting in Aug or when they decide to)
- decide on big pictures (like if we should remove things and split into basic/intermediate)
- some topic details can be covered since there are some preparations done for this
- find out working methods

### Non-goals

- schedules
    - this is for the group

### Agenda

- evaluations again
- groups
- general decisions on common levels for the courses
- working methods

### Evaluations again

#### R

##### Comments by us

- [Richel] The course is an introduction course.
  I feel the start-up/foundational parts
  are given too little time, to allow for things that are sexier.
  I feel those beginner things need/deserve their time,
  also because the sexier topics build on them.
  Note that the confidences in these topics are usually among the lowest:
  maybe this is because that foundation is missing.
  In a schedule, 1 of these 3 topics can still fit in.

    - [MOVED TO DAY 4] Suggest to remove 'Machine learning': RB
        - [Björn] more and more demand for this (right?)
            - [Richel] I agree. But should it come at a cost of the foundational topics?
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix
    - [MOVED TO DAY 4] Suggest to remove 'Parallel':
        - [Björn] although not that common, this is one of the cores
            - [Richel] There is no other session that build on this one, hence
            I would not call it a foundational/beginner topic.
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix
        - [Linus] To make use of a cluster this is foundational. Without this, the users
        laptop is likely faster (unless significantly older than the cluster hardware).
            - [Richel] There is one time slot free where this topic may be put.
            Hence, if most people for this topic, it will be in :-)
        - [Richel] There is also a learner that wants to keep it in [the evaluation](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/evaluations/20250324_r/README.md#question-5-which-future-training-topics-would-you-like-to-be-provided-by-the-training-hosts)
    - [KEEP] Suggest to remove 'Isolated environments': RB
        - [Björn] To my knowledge this is not use extensively,
        although for reproducibility it maybe should (I don't know the community well)
            - [Richel] This may be, but should it come at a cost of the foundational topics?
            Putting it in an intermediate course could be a possible fix.
            There is one time slot free where this topic may be put.
            [DECIDED] keep this in the end of the R day, if time allows
- [DECIDED] the simultaneous sessions on RStudio are done by RB: due to some NAISS-wide courses,
  teaching for more HPC clusters has gotten more normal

#### MATLAB

- Evaluations
    - [Matlab evaluation survey, results](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UOUZBSEZNNlFPOURLMTAyQjFHRTVMTUJDWi4u)
    - [On GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250325_matlab)

- Summary
    - 1 did not recommend
    - missing 5s
        - jupyter
        - GPU
        - client on desktop (is this the UPPMAX local)
        - parallel
    - large divergence in confidence
        - GPUs
        - view add-ons
        - parallel
    - no need for real-time reading
    - future topics: 3rd party tools

##### Comments by us

- BC:
    - restructure the 2 batch sessions
    - more info-hiding (stuff they can cover themselves)

Questions to solve

- no matlab the 4th day?
- everything included, need to remove something
- mv jupyter (either extra or advanced day)


#### Julia

- Evaluations
    - [Julia evaluation survey, results](https://forms.office.com/Pages/AnalysisPage.aspx?AnalyzerToken=gYUW4FOr3fmmsYmBv20YfsRGEQUDXKUw&id=-aZLWjH1Mk-UZzmPGead5I9DA_EX6qtGpq8zJf2ohI1UQzRLRE83Nlc2MEFZQldTV0IzTEYzTjhVNy4u)
    - [On GitHub](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/evaluations/20250326_julia)

- Summary
    - at least one puts a 5 all the time!
    - large divergence in confidence
        - install julia package
        - envs
        - interactive (needs time)
        - batch script
        - RB: the parallel session is missing from the survey
    - good teaching
    - asks for ML and more GPU hands-on


##### Comments by us

- BC:
    - more info-hiding (stuff they can cover themselves)
- LS:
    - envs are basic Julia knowledge and fast: we might be able to teach by example
      through making new ones throughout the day, where it makes sense

- Discuss Pluto vs Jupyter in group!!


### Groups

- R
    - RB
    - BB

- MATLAB
    - BC
    - RP
    - BB

- Julia
    - (BC)
    - LS
    - PO

- Advanced
    - PO
    - BB
    - BC (big data?) let's ask Sahar if we schedule for it
    - Perhaps involve Jayant
    - LS
    - RP


### Discussion general

#### Already decided

    -

#### New things

- Demos/Type-alongs/Exercise
    - Teacher decides but think of which fits the most
    - like
        - Few lines as type-alongs and ask how well it works

- The content should be as similar as possible between languages? (like ML or not, basic+intermediate workshops)
    - yes:
    - no: RB


- Present content

Topic              | R      | MATLAB        |   Julia       | Importance      | Used in later sessions? [1]
-------------------|--------|---------------|---------------|-----------------|------------------------
modules            |  Yes   | Yes           | Yes           | high            | Yes
packages/add-ons   |  Yes   | Yes           | Yes           | high            | Yes
environments       |  Yes   | No            | Yes           | Julia, not R?   | Yes in Julia, else no
batch              |  Yes   | Yes           | Yes           | high            | Yes
Interactive/(IDEs) |  Yes   | Yes (Jupyter) | Yes           | high            | Yes
Parallel           |  Yes   | Yes           | Yes           | difficult       | No, but could, e.g. for ML
GPU                |  Yes   | small example | -??           | get a GPU yes   | No, but could, e.g. for ML
ML                 |  Yes   | No            | small example | other course?   | No

- [1] Added by RB, I feel this is less open to interpretation than 'Importance'

- 4th day
    - parallel
    - GPU
    - ML

- Reduce content?
    - no ML
    - no parallelism? hard question
        - MPI courses by NAISS but not for these languages
    - environments just needed for Julia
        - imbalance, (no IDE for Julia then?)
            - [LS] Pluto is such a fully-featured notebook now that another IDE rarely makes sense
            - Pluto/Jupyter discussed in group!
            - [BC] we need IDE then, I agree!
- Split into basic/intermediate?
    - Yes: RB
    - No:

### Group work

- schedules

## Earlier meetings

[Meeting 21 May](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250521.md)

[All meetings](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/meeting_notes)
