# Introduction to running R, MATLAB and Julia in HPC

- Course ZOOM:
    - Meeting ID:
    - Passcode:
- Planning zoom:

## Materials page

- [Rendered](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
- [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main)

## Topics planning

- R
- Matlab
- Julia

## Autumn 2025

- **6-8 October**
- R: Mon 6 Oktober
- MATLAB: Tue 7 Oktober
- Julia: Wed 8 Oktober
- Advanced: Fri 10 Oct


## Meeting Fre 12 Sep kl 11-12

### Goals

- Decide on Theme
- Decide on working branch
- Get closer to preliminary schedules?

### Agenda

- Status
- Discussion and decisions
    - themes and branch
    - schedules
    - issues
- TODOs

### Status

- Course project is created:
    - naiss2025-22-934 (NSC, PDC, C3SE)
    - hpc2n2025-151 (HPC2N)
    - need Pelle/Rackham+COSMOS (Björn+Rebecca)
    - 1 Oct 31 Dec if course by course

- Theme
    - We wanted MkDocs with materials theme + RTD look because
        - We voted for **RTD look** but wanted **mermaid** to work
            LS: I voted for RTD for search, not for look
    - There may not be any RTD STYLE plugin to Materials THEME
      (seems to have been a **style** vs **platform** **mix-up** in earlier
      discussions within NAISS)
    - **RTD THEME now works with Mermaid** if changing `flowchart`
      to `graph` in code.
      See [Linux201 test](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/misc/test_mermaid/)
        - RB: Yes, that is the DOT language :+1:

- Schedule:
    - Just the order is there but not timings.
    - Perhaps last day will be shorter
    - Some languages things still to be solved

- rst to md
    - BC: starting next week
    -
  

### Discussions and decisions

### Theme

- RB: sounds like an issue to me :-) .
  I will not volunteer, as I think the voted-for option does not exist
- BC: Since I got mermaid graphs by Richel working now in ordinary RTD theme
  I vote for that solution.
  Most of us have experience from Linux201 and modules course here.

- Can we use config files straight from another of the RTD theme NAISS courses?
    - YES, one of the below (you may know if there are any differences)
      and modify if needed. **BC**
        - [DECIDED] [Linux201](https://uppmax.github.io/linux-command-line-201/)
            - BC (check if it is well populated + CSS (Already there))
        - [Modules](https://hpc2n.github.io/selecting-modules/)
    - NO, I know another repo that may be even better
    - NO, materials of this reason:

### Where to work

- docs-mk !
- NOTE: Now ``docs``. old docs renamed to ``docs-sphinx``
- Pages deployed from MAIN branch
    - Still branches can be used by us if we don't want to work in main.
    - actions are updated accordingly (copied from developed)
- Can we merge develop branch to main or will it ruin?
    - probably not but Björn investigate with Richel

### [Friday schedule](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/docs/advanced/schedule.md)

- RB: would like to teach 1 or 2 slots (i.e. 1 or 2 times a 45/50 minute block)
  'Parallel and multithreaded functions',
  with (draft) learning outcomes below.
  I don't care where on the day it is: if lunch breaks my session in two,
  I will be fine with it too. I will prefer not do 3 slots,
  as I feel other topics are more important and/or interesting.
    - Schedule and run a job that needs more cores,
      with a calculation in their favorite language
    - Understand when it is possible/impossible
      and/or useful/useless to run a job with multiple cores

- [DECIDED] 2 slots will be enough for paralle

- [DECIDED] 1 slot for ML


ML

- R (some examples are there)
- MATLAB
    - inspiration from Mondays (BC+PO+RP look)
    - graphical
    - --> separate session
- Julia
    - one example is there
    - Linus may add


- BC: May be good/interesting to have an hour for open-floor or extra exercises.
    - an idea but decide later

### Language schedules


#### makes issues

- RB: I am fine with anyone making issues and assigning me. I will make my own issues.
- There are some new

## Earlier meetings

[Meeting 1 Sep](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250901.md)

[All meetings](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/meeting_notes)
