# 4-day Introduction to running R, Python, Julia, MATLAB in HPC

- Course ZOOM: `[URL]`
- Planning zoom: `[URL]`

## Materials page

- [Rendered](https://uppmax.github.io/R-matlab-julia-HPC/)
- [Source](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main)

## Topics planning

- [Julia](https://hackmd.io/ERX9FIgyR_6wDbmcqi_8HA#)
- [R](https://hackmd.io/gV_gdctHQPWz6eElFWfq6Q#)
- [Matlab](https://hackmd.io/RTujs9MnS0ehsGD7ufNBfA#)

# Spring 2025

## Dates

- 21 Mar 11.00-12.00 Onboarding 
- 24 Mar R
- 25 Mar Matlab
- 26 Mar Julia

## Meeting 20 March 15:00

### Status

- Number of registrations: 45
    - Of which Dardel users: 11
- Where are we? 
    - Any panic? Nope
    - MATLAB gives the most problems :-)
    - Emails are sent out to learners
    - Dardel has only 30 ThinLinc licenses. Unknown if this is a problem
    - BB: Can access the MATLAB that works
    - BC: Lots to do with the lessons! Prereqs/parations done? Login almost 
    - PO: Testing examples and exercises on the clusters
    - RB: Perfectly on schedule! Todo: logins via ThinLinc/website: doc and video
    - RP: Mosty OK. Prepared for potential shortage of Dardel ThinLinc licenses :-)
 
### Evaluation questions

- [KEEP] 1. Overall, how would you rate today's training event?
    - BB: remove only if all agree. Prefers this over average learning outcome of 12
    - BC: neutral
    - PO: neutral
    - RB: Neutral. I'd prefer to use the average learning outcome
      of question 12.
    - RP: neutral
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15] 2.Today's content and feedback to the lecturers (e.g. materials, exercises, structure): – What did you like best?
    - Add suggestions to 'Extra feedback'
    - BB: remove only if all agree
    - BC: Nudge in last text question
    - PO: agree to nudge
    - RB: Suggest to remove, question 15 is fine for this
    - RP: Agree to nudge in last text question
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15] 3.Today's content and feedback to the lecturers (e.g. materials, exercises, structure): – Where should we improve?
    - BB: remove only if all agree
    - BC: RM
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove, question 15 is fine for this
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15] 4.Training event organisation (e.g. announcement, registration, ...):  –   What did you like best?      – Where should we improve?
    - BB: remove only if all agree
    - BC: rm
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove, unless the course coordinator likes this question
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15]5.Length of teaching today was
    - BB: remove only if all agree
    - BC: nudge in 15
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove, question 15 is fine for this
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15]6.Depth of content was
    - BB: would agree to remove too
    - BC: 
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove: there are too many teachers
    - RP: 
- [REWORD] 7.The pace of teaching was
    - Reword to: 'What do you think about the pace of teaching overall?', then open question
    - BB: would agree to remove too
    - BC: reword!
    - PO: agree to reword
    - RB: Suggest to remove: there are too many teachers. Like to try out the reword
    - RP: Agree to reword
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15]8.Teaching aids used (e.g. slides) were well prepared
    - BB: would agree to remove too
    - BC:
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove: there are too many teachers
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15]9.Hands-on exercises and demonstrations were
    - BB: would agree to remove too
    - BC:
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove: there are too many teachers
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15]10.Hands-on exercises and demonstrations were well prepared
    - BB: would agree to remove too
    - BC:
    - PO:
    - RB: Suggest to remove: there are too many teachers
    - RP: 
- [REMOVE, ADD POKE IN 15] 11.How would you rate the separate sessions?
    - BB: I agree to remove 11
    - BC: kind of like this division of topics after the Q12
    - PO: rm
    - RB: Suggest to remove: this is too harsh on a person
    - RP: 
- [KEEP]12.Give your confidence levels of the following statements
    - BB: Useful
    - BC: useful
    - PO:
    - RB: Awesome! Love this!
    - RP: 
- [REWORD] 13.Did today's course meet your expectation?
    - Reword to 'Would you recommend this course to someone else?'
    - BB: Neutral
    - BC: reword
    - PO: reword
    - RB: Suggest to remove: too big overlap with question 1. Would accept reword
    - RP: 
- [KEEP] 14.Which future training topics would you like to be provided by the training host(s)?
    - Add policy of things we will not provide :+1:
    - BB: Neutral
    - BC: nice to have: keep
    - PO: keep
    - RB: Suggest to remove
    - RP: Nice to have
- [KEEP] 15.Do you have any additional comments?
    - add the pokes from above
    - BB: Neutral
    - BC: YES
    - PO: nice to have
    - RB: Awesome! Love this!
    - RP: 

Reasoning BB:

- Problem with removing a lot of the questions is that people will not unprompted say anything about things they like/don't like in the extra comments. The many questions at the beginning were added to get some input so I would not want to remove 1-5 unless everyone agrees to do so.
- I can agree with removing 6-10, even if they have in the past given us useful info on what to improve - I agree they are less useful with many teachers. We can then see if people say something useful in extra comments and if not we can add some back in.
I do find 12. useful but I don't agree that you can really tell that much about how good the course was from it unless we also check people before the course, so I do think we need 1. for that
(1-10 + 13-14 are questions I got from PRACE as officially required when we did some courses as PRACE training, and for lack of better we just reused for our other courses)

Reasoning RB:

Just to post it somewhere, my responses are below. You'll see I am conservative in asking many questions, as (1) I prefer not to overburden the learners, (2) I've seen in my reflections ( https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/reflections/20241022_richel#summary-of-evaluation-results ) that most of these questions were useless to me.

The OSes we run on our own computers:
- BB: Linux
- BC: Windows, **Mac** 
- PO: **Windows**
- RB: Linux
- RP: Linux, Windows as back-up

## Earlier meetings

[Meeting 14 March](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/blob/main/meeting_notes/20250314.md)

[All meetings](https://github.com/UPPMAX/R-matlab-julia-HPC/tree/main/meeting_notes)
