Isolated environments
=====================

.. note::
   Isolated environments solve a couple of problems:
   
   - You can install specific, also older, versions into them.
   - You can create one for each project and no problem if the two projects
     require different versions.
   - You can remove the environment and create a new one, if not needed or with
     errors.
   
R is not very well known for virtual environments like Python and Julia. However:

>The ``renv`` package is a new effort to bring project-local R dependency
management to your projects. The goal is for renv to be a robust, stable
replacement for the Packrat package, with fewer surprises and better default
behaviors.



.. questions::

   - How to work with isolated environments at HPC2N and UPPMAX?
 
.. objectives:: 

   - Give a general 'theoretical* introduction to isolated environments .

General procedures   
------------------

You will now and then  have the situation that your project(s) use different
versions of R and different versions of packages. This is great if you need
different versions of a package for different tasks, for instance. This is
easily solved with isolated environments.

Isolated environments lets you create separate workspaces for different
versions of R and/or different versions of packages. You can activate and
deactivate them one at a time, and work as if the other workspace does not
exist.

>Underlying the philosophy of ``renv`` is that any of your existing workflows
should just work as they did before – ``renv`` helps manage library paths (and
other project-specific state) to help isolate your project’s R dependencies,
and the existing tools you’ve used for managing R packages (e.g.
``install.packages()``, ``remove.packages()``) should work as they did before.
https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html

Workflow
--------

The general workflow when working with ``renv`` is:

    1. Call ``renv::init()`` to initialize a new project-local environment with
           a private R library,

    2. Work in the project as normal, installing and removing new R packages as
           they are needed in the project,

    3. Call ``renv::snapshot()`` to save the state of the project library to
           the lockfile (called ``renv.lock``),

    4. Continue working on your project, installing and updating R packages as
           needed.

    5. Call ``renv::snapshot()`` again to save the state of your project
           library if your attempts to update R packages were successful, or
           call ``renv::restore()`` to revert to the previous state as encoded
           in the lockfile if your attempts to update packages introduced some
           new problems.

The ``renv::init()`` function attempts to ensure the newly-created project
library includes all R packages currently used by the project. It does this by
crawling R files within the project for dependencies with the
``renv::dependencies()`` function. The discovered packages are then installed
into the project library with the r``env::hydrate()`` function, which will also
attempt to save time by copying packages from your user library (rather than
reinstalling from CRAN) as appropriate.

Calling ``renv::init()`` will also write out the infrastructure necessary to
automatically load and use the private library for new R sessions launched from
the project root directory. This is accomplished by creating (or amending) a
project-local .Rprofile with the necessary code to load the project when the R
session is started.

If you’d like to initialize a project without attempting dependency discovery
and installation – that is, you’d prefer to manually install the packages your
project requires on your own – you can use ``renv::init(bare = TRUE)`` to
initialize a project with an empty project library.

Example - Installing ``stringr``
********************************

First create a project under the course project directory and cd to it

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: UPPMAX

      .. code-block:: sh

         $ mkdir -v /proj/py-r-jl/matpiq/R/r_proj && cd $_
      
   .. tab:: HPC2N

      .. code-block:: sh

         $ mkdir -v /proj/nobackup/<your-project-id>/matpiq/<language>/r_proj &&  cd $_

Make sure you have loaded ``R_packages`` on UPPMAX or ``R`` on keb. Next,
launch the ``R`` interpreter and initialize an ``renv`` environment.


.. code-block:: R
   
   renv::init()
   # Exit the session
   quit()

Verify that the ``renv`` directory as well as lock file was created

.. code-block:: sh

   ❯ ls -l
   drwxrwsr-x 4 matpiq p_py-r-jl 4096 Feb  9 16:32 renv
   -rw-rw-r-- 1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  354 Feb  9 16:32 renv.lock

Relaunch and check at the library paths

.. code-block:: R

   > .libPaths()
   [1] "/crex/proj/py-r-jl/matpiq/r_proj/renv/library/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu"
   [2] "/scratch/RtmpMgprgX/renv-system-library"

What happens if you leave the project directory? As a last step we can try
installing some package into the environment. Let's re-enter the project
directory and try installing  ``knitr``

.. code-block:: R

   > install.packages("knitr")

And check what was installed

.. code-block:: sh

   $ ls -l renv/library/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu
   lrwxrwxrwx  1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  121 Feb  9 16:44 evaluate -> /domus/h1/matpiq/.cache/R/renv/cache/v5/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/evaluate/0.20/4b68aa51edd89a0e044a66e75ae3cc6c/evaluate
   lrwxrwxrwx  1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  115 Feb  9 16:44 highr -> /domus/h1/matpiq/.cache/R/renv/cache/v5/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/highr/0.10/06230136b2d2b9ba5805e1963fa6e890/highr
   lrwxrwxrwx  1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  115 Feb  9 16:44 knitr -> /domus/h1/matpiq/.cache/R/renv/cache/v5/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/knitr/1.42/8329a9bcc82943c8069104d4be3ee22d/knitr
   dr-xr-sr-x 10 matpiq sw        4096 Sep  6  2021 renv
   lrwxrwxrwx  1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  113 Feb  9 16:44 xfun -> /domus/h1/matpiq/.cache/R/renv/cache/v5/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/xfun/0.37/a6860e1400a8fd1ddb6d9b4230cc34ab/xfun
   lrwxrwxrwx  1 matpiq p_py-r-jl  114 Feb  9 16:44 yaml -> /domus/h1/matpiq/.cache/R/renv/cache/v5/R-4.1/x86_64-pc-linux-gnu/yaml/2.3.7/0d0056cc5383fbc240ccd0cb584bf436/yaml



*Note*: Notice that the packages exposed in the ``renv`` library are actually
just symbolic links to the home directory. This allows the same package to be
shared across environments. However, having this cached in the home directory
might be suboptimal because of limited storage. We can change this behavior by
setting ``use.cache:: FALSE`` in the ``renv/settings.dcf`` file. Another option
is to set the ``RENV_PATHS_CACHE`` to someplace else, for example
``R_LIBS_SITE`` if the R_packages module is loaded.

*Note*: You can also do all of this directly through Rstudio when initializing a
project.

Conda (UPPMAX)
--------------

Another possibility on UPPMAX is instead using Conda to create a virtual
environment. For example, create an environment ``yaml`` file. Let's call it
``r_env.yaml``

.. code-block:: yaml

   name: my_r_env
   channels:
    - conda-forge
   dependencies:
    - r
    - r-essentials

Then load conda and create the environment

.. code-block:: sh

   $ mamba env create -f r_env.yaml

Next, we can activate the environment and verify that we have indeed have an
isolated R environment

.. code-block:: sh

   $ conda activate r_env
   $ which R
   ~/.conda/envs/my_r_env/bin/R

If we want to store our environments somewhere else, e.g. in the project
directory (recommended), we can define the environmental variable
``CONDA_ENVS_PATH="path/to/your/env"``.

Benefits of using Conda:

- Easy to install a specific R version
- Good integration with Jupyter
- Should be familiar to people with a Python background


.. keypoints::

   - With a virtual environment you can tailor an environment with specific
     versions for Python and packages, not interfering with other installed
     python versions and packages.
   - Make it for each project you have for reproducibility.
   - There are different tools to create virtual environemnts.
      - UPPMAX has Conda as an alternative to ``renv``
      - More details in the separated sessions!
